Our project analyzes user data to build profiles and infer behavior. By measuring many different flags such as IP address, account ID, user behavior, and user association, we can gather insights about users. For instance, we can detect ban evasion, account sharing, user retention, and any other behaviors one would like to measure. This would be a containerized service that other applications can interface with and configure for any project they desire. Doing this instead of making it a library for a certain language allows it to be language-independent as well as scalable. This project would be a culmination of my college experience in regards to software design as well as my experience at my co-ops.

Many classes I have taken have prepared me for this project. The obvious first class to mention would be Python Programming (CS2021) since this project will mainly be written in Python. The User Centered Design (DSGN1071) and UI (CS5167) courses will help me better design any dashboards or other interfaces we may create for this project. While the project is mostly a tool for developers, we will likely need some way to visualize the data as well as a UI to configure notification integrations. Parallel Computing (CS5168) will help me make this system scalable. The Information Security (IT2030) and Cyber Defense (CS5155) courses will help ensure that the project is secure. Probability and Statistics (STAT2037) will help me interpret our data and distinguish trends from noise. On the soft skills side, my experience with my Intro to Public Speech (COMM1071), Intermediate Composition (ENGL2089), and Tech Writing (ENGL4092) classes will help me better communicate with my group to get the project done.

What I've learned from my co-op experiences will also help me with this project. My job as a developer at the University of Cincinnati gave me my first taste of large-scale software development. Afterwards, my job as a developer at Tenet 3 taught me how to use several technologies that I will likely use in this project. There I used Docker, which I will use to bundle up our application, as well as gRPC, an interprocess communication protocol that I will use to have our application communicate with programs that use it. I also learned a lot about practices such as unit testing, proper package management, and linting. Later on, my job as a developer at Seven Hills Technology further cemented my skills in software engineering. Of all the places I've worked, this one was the best in terms of the balance between autonomy with project planning and senior guidance, which is essential since I am taking a lot of responsibility with this project to plan things out myself.

The motivation for this project comes from personal experience. At one point, I was an admin on a game server where we had numerous issues with identity. Hackers would come in and cause trouble, get banned, and then just come back with a different IP through a VPN. We also had issues with people sharing accounts. One time a moderator on our server gave out their password to another user so that they could have those elevated privileges, which was against the rules. The problem was that there wasn't really any proper way to verify the identity of players in this game. You had the IP address, which could trivially be changed, and you had a unique identifier for the machine, which could also be trivially spoofed. Some sort of automated system, we thought, could detect such mischief. Thus we have this project. However, we intend to generalize it for any use case, not just games.

The project will be a utility library for developers to infer trends about user accounts and establish a common identity between them. This will be done by creating (a) Python application(s) that collect(s) this data through an API from some application. This data is then processed through a series of different categories, and then relationships are determined. Since flags are application-specific, we would need to create some sort of plugin system to determine custom flags. Calculating some flags may take more processing power to the point where we need to process them in separate applications that communicate with the main one. Doing this, we can run tasks in parallel and scale our application. For the sake of scalability, running this service across many machines will of course be possible. When anomalies are found, developers can choose what happens. It could be configured to communicate back to the third-party application so that they could ban the user or do whatever they want within their own systems. It could also send a warning through a notification on Slack. Doing all this will empower administrators to more efficiently deal with problematic users.